.TH lpjliveview 1  "January 13, 2009" "version 0.9.004" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
lpjliveview \- Graphical live view of a LPJmL simulation 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpjliveview
[-output socket=:port] [\-outpath \fIdir\fP] [\-inpath \fIdir\fP] [[\-Dmacro[=value]] [\-I\fIdir\fP] ...] [\fIfilename\fP [-display disp] [-step n] [-scale min max] [variable]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program display a global map for output variables of a LPJmL simulation run on a X11 window. Data sent from \fBlpjml\fP is also stored in files as specified in the LPJmL configuration file. After the last simulation year has been shown all years are displayed repeatedly until a key is pressed. \fBlpjml\fP must be started with '-output socket=\fIhostname\fP' option to enable a connection with \fBlpjliveview\fP running on host \fIhostname\fP. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-output socket=:port
set the port of the TCP/IP connection where the program listens. Default value is 2222. Be sure to configure the firewall appropriately.
.TP
\-outpath \fIdir\fP
set the output directory path. The path is added to the output filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-inpath \fIdir\fP
set the input directory path. The path is added to the input filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-Dmacro[=value]
define macro for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
\-I\fIdir\fP
define include directory for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
.I filename
name of configuration file, default is \fIlpjml.conf\fP.
.TP
-display disp
Set X11 display.
.TP
-step n
Set number of colors in output.
.TP
-scale min max
Set scaling of output data.
.TP
variable
Select output variable. Valid variables are firec, firef, vegc, soilc, litc,mg_vegc, mg_soilc,
mg_litc, aprec, input_lake, adischarge, flux_estab, harvest, prod_turnover, deforest_emis, mnpp, d_npp, mrh, mtransp,
mrunoff, mdischarge, mevap, minterc, mswc1, mswc2, mirrig, mreturn_flow_b, mevap_lake, d_lai, d_phen, d_cleaf, d_croot, d_cso, d_cpool, d_wdf,
d_growingday, d_pvd, d_phu, d_fphu, d_laimaxad, d_lainppdeficit,
d_husum", d_vdsum, d_wscal, d_npp, d_gpp, d_rd, d_rroot,
d_rso", d_rpool, d_gresp, d_trans, d_evap", d_prec, d_perc,
d_irrig, d_w0, d_w1, d_wevap, d_hi, d_hiopt, d_himind, d_froot,
d_temp, d_sun, d_par, d_daylength, d_pet. Default is vegc.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start simulation on compute cluster with 128 tasks and view results for vegetation carbon on host aix:
.nf
\fBlpjliveview\fP -DFROM_RESTART &
\fBlpjsubmit\fP 128 -output socket=aix -DFROM_RESTART
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LPJCONFIG
default LPJmL configuration filename
.TP
LPJPREP 
defines preprocessor command for LPJmL configuration file, default is \fBcpp -P\fP.
.TP
LPJROOT
defines the root directory for LPJmL. This directory is added to the
include directories of the preprocessor
.TP
LPJOUTPUT
set port of TCP/IP connection.
.TP
LPJINPATH
Path appended to the input filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOPTIONS     
runtime options for the preprocessor of LPJmL configuration files
.TP
LPJOUTPATH
Path appended to the output filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
lpjliveview
returns a zero exit status if the output has been displayed and the  output files have been created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner von Bloh (Werner.von.Bloh@pik-potsdam.de)

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), lpj(1), lpjml.conf(5)
