.TH lpjsave 1  "October 21, 2011" "version 3.5.004" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
lpjsave \- Save input/output files of LPJmL using Tivoli Storage Manager TSM 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpjsave
[\-h] [-virtualnode node] [-password pw] [-descr string] [\-noinput] [-pp cmd] [\-outpath \fIdir\fP]
[\-inpath \fIdir\fP] [\-restartpath \fIdir\fP] [[\-Dmacro[=value]] [\-I\fIdir\fP] ...]
[\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Shell script saves all input and output files of LPJmL configuration files into TSM archive. Needs TSM to be installed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
display a short help text
.TP
\-virtualnode node
Virtual node of TSM
.TP
\-password pw
Password of TSM account
.TP
\-descr string
Description of archive stored in TSM
.TP
\-noinput
does not save input data files
.TP
\-pp cmd
Set preprocessor program to cmd. Default is \fBcpp -P\fP.
.TP
\-outpath \fIdir\fP
set the output directory path. The path is added to the output filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-inpath \fIdir\fP
set the input directory path. The path is added to the input filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-Dmacro[=value]
define macro for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
\-I\fIdir\fP
define include directory for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
.I filename
name of configuration file, default is \fIlpjml.conf\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Archive files without input files.
.B lpjsave 
-virtualnode node -password pd -descr "LPJmL results" -noinput -DFROM_RESTART lpjml.conf
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LPJCONFIG
default LPJmL configuration filename
.TP
LPJPREP 
defines preprocessor command for LPJmL configuration file, default is \fBcpp -P\fP. Same as '-pp' option.
.TP
LPJROOT
defines the root directory for LPJmL. This directory is added to the
include directories of the preprocessor
.TP
LPJINPATH
Path appended to the input filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOPTIONS     
runtime options for the preprocessor of LPJmL configuration files
.TP
LPJOUTPATH
Path appended to the output filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJRESTARTPATH
Path appended to the restart filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner von Bloh (Werner.von.Bloh@pik-potsdam.de)

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), lpjcheck(1), lpjfiles(1), lpjml.conf(5)
