.TH plotlpj 1  "January 13, 2009" "version 1.0.012" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
plotlpj \- Plot global map for output variables of LPJmL simulation 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B plotlpj
[\-h] [\-outpath \fIdir\fP] [\-inpath \fIdir\fP] [[\-Dmacro[=value]] [\-I\fIdir\fP] ...] [\fIfilename\fP [-l] [-swap] [-log] [-step n] [-scale min max] [-o \fIgmfname\fP] [variable [year [day|month]]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program plots a global map for output variables of a LPJmL simulation run. A gmf file is generated that can be converted to PostScript by \fBgmfps\fP or displayed on screen by \fBxgmf\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
display a short help text
.TP
\-outpath \fIdir\fP
set the output directory path. The path is added to the output filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-inpath \fIdir\fP
set the input directory path. The path is added to the input filenames if they do not contain an absolute path.
.TP
\-Dmacro[=value]
define macro for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
\-I\fIdir\fP
define include directory for the preprocessor of the configuration file
.TP
.I filename
name of configuration file, default is \fIlpjml.conf\fP.
.TP
-l
list all output variables available in the simulation run.
.TP
-swap
change byte order in output data.
.TP
-log
Set logarithmic scaling of output data.
.TP
-step n
Set number of colors in plot.
.TP
-scale min max
Set scaling of output data.
.TP
-o \fIgmfname\fP
Set output filename of gmf graphics file. File suffix \fI.gmf\fP is added to the filename. Default is \fIplot.gmf\fP.
.TP
variable
Select output variable. Valid variables are firec, firef, vegc, soilc, litc, mg_vegc, mg_soilc,
mg_litc, aprec, input_lake, adischarge, flux_estab, harvest, prod_turnover, deforest_emis, mnpp, mgpp, d_npp, d_daylength, mrh, mtransp,
mrunoff, mdischarge, mevap, minterc, mswc1, mswc2, mirrig, mreturn_flow_b, mevap_lake. Default is vegc.
.TP
year
select output year. Default is first simulation year.
.TP
month
select output month for monthly output data.
.TP
day
select output day for daily output data.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all output variables defined in \fIlpjml.conf\fP:
.B plotlpj
-DFROM_RESTART lpjml.conf -l
.TP
Plot soil carbon map (soilc) for simulation year 2003:
.B plotlpj
-DFROM_RESTART lpjml.conf soilc 2003
.TP
Plot monthly evaporation (mevap) map for June 2003:
.B plotlpj
-DFROM_RESTART lpjml.conf mevap 2003 6
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
LPJCONFIG
default LPJmL configuration filename
.TP
LPJPREP 
defines preprocessor command for LPJmL configuration file, default is \fBcpp -P\fP.
.TP
LPJROOT
defines the root directory for LPJmL. This directory is added to the
include directories of the preprocessor
.TP
LPJINPATH
Path appended to the input filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.
.TP
LPJOPTIONS     
runtime options for the preprocessor of LPJmL configuration files
.TP
LPJOUTPATH
Path appended to the output filenames. Only done for filenames without absolute path.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B
plotlpj
returns a zero exit status if the gmf graphic file has been created.
Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Werner von Bloh (Werner.von.Bloh@pik-potsdam.de)

.SH SEE ALSO
lpjml(1), plotclimate(1), xgmf(1), gmfps(1)
